---
title: 2.2 Measurement Methods
parent: 2. Linear Optics Measurements
nav_order: 2
layout: default
---

# Optics Measurement Methods from BPMs
Optics Measurement Methods are used to measure the optics of an accelerator at different locations. $$\beta$$ is the quantity we will focus on measuring at the interaction regions. There are many methods to measure this quantity in a ring using BPMs.

# Beta from Amplitude
Beta from amplitude methods usually follow a certain pattern. First, a form of the amplitude function $$A$$ is measured, which depends on the method. The amplitudes are related to the beta function at each BPM multiplied by a factor, usually known as the action. The resulting beta function is calculated at RHIC in the following way:

$$\beta = A^2 \frac{\sum_{arc} \beta_{model}}{\sum_{arc} A}$$

The arc values refer to the bpm values that are located in the arc sections of the ring (i.e. not near the IR regions). These regions are designed to have a lower beta function and thus have lower room for error. They are also usually unmodified when changes to the lattice are made. 

## 1. Harmonic Analysis (HA)

The fourier transform is applied to all working BPM data, and the $\boldsymbol{A}$ is calculated according to (cite paper):

The conversion from amplitude to beta function is then applied.

## 2. Curve Fitting (CF)

A least-squares fit to the closed orbit equation ($$x_{co}(N)$$) is applied to all working BPMs. The amplitudes of each BPM are then collected into a vector $\boldsymbol{A}$ and the beta function depends on the square of the amplitudes. The conversion from amplitude to beta function is then applied.

## 3. Model Independent Analysis
### 3.1 Principal Component Analysis
### 3.2 Independent Component Analysis
### 3.3 Dynamic Mode Decomposition

# Beta from Phase
## 4. N-BPM Methods
Beta from phase instead of amplitude
-  Independent of BPM calibration and tilt errors
and of being insensitive to betatron coupling to first
order
- assumes perfect timing synchronization and no optics errors